---
title: Running GROMACS on Legion
layout: docs
---
[[Category:Bash script pages]]
[[Category:Legion]]
GROMACS on Legion was built with FFTW, the OpenMPI library and the GNU compilers. It is therefore strongly recommended that you have these modules loaded when running it:

* sge/6.2u3
* compilers/gnu/4.6.3
* mpi/openmpi/1.4.5/gnu.4.6.3
* gromacs/4.6.1/openmpi/gnu.4.6.3

Which version you require depends on the problem you wish to solve.  For both single and double precisions version builds, serial binaries and an MPI binary for mdrun (mdrun_mpi) are provided. Double precision binaries have a _d suffix (so mdrun_d, mdrun_mpi_d etc).  The MPI binaries should be run in the OpenMPI (openmpi) parallel environment with the OpenMPI implementation.

===Job Script===
{|style="background-color:#F9F9F9;" width=100%
|-
|
<code>
 #!/bin/bash -l

 # Batch script to run an MPI parallel GROMACS job on Legion with the upgraded software
 # stack under SGE with OpenMPI.

 # 1. Force bash as the executing shell.
 #$ -S /bin/bash

 # 2. Request ten minutes of wallclock time (format hours:minutes:seconds).
 #$ -l h_rt=0:10:0

 # 3. Request 1 gigabyte of RAM per process.
 #$ -l mem=1G

 # 4. Request 15 gigabyte of TMPDIR space per node (default is 10 GB)
 #$ -l tmpfs=15G

 # 5. Set the name of the job.
 #$ -N GROMACS_1_16_OpenMPI

 # 6. Select the OpenMPI parallel environment and 16 processes.
 #$ -pe openmpi 16

 # 7. Select the project that this job will run under.
 # Find <your_project_id> by running the command "groups"
 #$ -P <your_project_id>

 # 8. Set the working directory of the job to the current directory
 #     containing your input files.
 #    This *has* to be somewhere in your Scratch space, or else your
 #     job will go into the Eqw state.
 #$ -cwd

 module unload compilers/intel/11.1/072
 module unload mpi/qlogic/1.2.7/intel
 module unload mkl/10.2.5/035
 module load compilers/gnu/4.6.3
 module load mpi/openmpi/1.4.5/gnu.4.6.3
 module load gromacs/4.6.1/openmpi/gnu.4.6.3

 # Run GROMACS - replace with mdrun command line suitable for your job!

 gerun mdrun_mpi -v -stepout 10000
</code>
|}