---
title: Running FSL on Legion
layout: docs
---
[[Category:Bash script pages]]
[[Category:Legion]]
The FMRIB Software Library is a set of tools for analysis and visualization of  FMRI, MRI and DTI brain imaging data. It is developed by the FMRIB Analysis Group of the Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences at the University of Oxford. Versions 5.0.1 and 4.1.9 are available on Legion. FSL is intended to be run primarily within batch jobs however you may run short (less than 5 minutes execution time) interactive tests on the Login Nodes and longer interactive tests on the User Test Nodes. Output can be displayed using the slices program.

Before you can use FSL you need to load the FSL module and call FSL's set up script. The procedure is slightly different for each version. For version 4.1.9:
<code>
 module unload compilers/intel/11.1/072
 module load compilers/gnu/4.4.0
 module load fsl/4.1.9/gnu.4.4.0
 source $FSLDIR/etc/fslconf/fsl.sh
</code>
and for version 5.0.1:
<code>
 module unload compilers/intel/11.1/072
 module load compilers/gnu/4.6.3
 module load fsl/5.0.1/gnu.4.6.3
 source $FSLDIR/etc/fslconf/fsl.sh
</code>
FSL 5 has been compiled using GCC 4.6.3 so that it can be used in combination with R. FSL programs can now be run in command line mode for example:
<code>
 susan structural.nii.gz 2000 2 3 1 0 structural_susan.nii.gz
</code>
With FSL version 5 some programs eg FEAT can submit jobs directly to the cluster and will do this by default. For other programs you will need a runscript. Here is an example runscript for version 5 to submit a batch job to the cluster:

{|style="background-color:#F9F9F9;" width=100%
|-
|
<code>
 #!/bin/bash -l

 # Batch script to run FSL 5 example jobs on Legion with the upgraded
 # software stack under SGE.
 #
 # November 2012
 #
 # Based on serial.sh by:
 #
 # Owain Kenway, Research Computing, 16/Sept/2010

 #$ -S /bin/bash

 # 1. Request 1 hour of wallclock time (format hours:minutes:seconds).
 #$ -l h_rt=1:0:0

 # 2. Request 4 gigabyte of RAM.
 #$ -l mem=4G

 # Note: some FSL programs are multi-threaded eg FEAT and you will need to
 # include a -l thr=<number of threads> directive as well.

 # 3. Set the name of the job.
 #$ -N FSL_job1

 # 5. Select the project that this job will run under.
 # Find <your_project_id> by running the command "groups"
 #$ -P <your_project_id>

 # 6. Set the working directory to somewhere in your scratch space.  This is
 # a necessary step with the upgraded software stack as compute nodes cannot
 # write to $HOME.
 #
 # Note: this directory MUST exist before your job starts!
 # Replace "<your_UCL_id>" with your UCL user ID :)
 #$ -wd /home/<your_UCL_id>/Scratch/FSL_output

 # 7. Setup FSL runtime environment

 module unload compilers/intel/11.1/072
 module load compilers/gnu/4.6.3
 module load fsl/5.0.1/gnu.4.6.3
 source $FSLDIR/etc/fslconf/fsl.sh

 # 8. Your work *must* be done in $TMPDIR 
 cd $TMPDIR

 # 9. Run job - A simple example using the BET command on the supplied example 
 #    data.

 # Copy input files to $TMPDIR
 cp /shared/ucl/apps/FSL/5.0.1/feeds/data/structural.nii.gz $TMPDIR
 echo ""
 echo "Running: bet structural.nii.gz structural_brain.nii"
 echo ""
 time bet structural.nii.gz structural_brain.nii

 # 10. Preferably, tar-up (archive) all output files onto the shared scratch area
 tar zcvf $HOME/Scratch/FSL/files_from_job_$JOB_ID $TMPDIR

 # Make sure you have given enough time for the copy to complete!
</code>
|}

This is available on Legion in:
<code>
 /shared/ucl/apps/FSL/5.0.1/run-fsl.sh
</code>
Please copy if you wish and edit it to suit your jobs. You will need to change the ''-P <your_project_id>'' and ''-wd /home/<your_UCL_id>/Scratch/FSL_output'' SGE directives. You will also need to change the FSL command in the example and may need to change the memory, wallclock time and job name directives as well. The script can be submitted using the simplest form of the qsub command i.e.:
<code>
 qsub run-fsl.sh
</code>
Output will be written to $TMPDIR and so will need to be copied back to your ~/Scratch directory - step 10 in the runscript. A version of the runscript for FSL version 4 is available in:
<code>
 /shared/ucl/apps/FSL/4.1.9/run-fsl.sh
</code>