---
title: DTI-TK on Legion
layout: application
---
{{Applications

|name=DTI-TK
|platform=Legion
|short=
DTI-TK is a spatial normalization and atlas construction toolkit optimized for examining white matter morphometry using DTI data.
|about=
DTI-TK is a set of tools for spatial normalization and atlas construction optimized for examining white matter morphometry using DTI data.It has been developed at the Penn Image Computing and Science Laboratory (PICSL), University of Pennsylvania. Version 2.3.0 is available on Legion. DTI-TK is intended to be run primarily within batch jobs however you may run short (less than 5 minutes execution time) interactive tests on the Login Nodes and longer interactive tests on the User Test Nodes.
|link1=[http://dti-tk.sourceforge.net/pmwiki/pmwiki.php?n=Main.HomePage DTI-TK web page on sourceforge]
|version=2.3.0
|moduleunload1=
|moduleunload2=
|moduleunload3=
|moduleunload4=
|moduleunload5=
|moduleunload6=
|moduleunload7=
|moduleunload8=
|moduleload1=dti-tk/2.3.0
|moduleload2=
|moduleload3=
|moduleload4=
|moduleload5=
|moduleload6=
|moduleload7=
|moduleload8=
|setup-notes=
Before you can use DTI-TK you also need to load its setup script:
<code>
 source $DTITK_ROOT/scripts/dtitk_common.sh
</code>
You can now run DTI-TK programs for example:
<code>
 dti_rigid_reg ixi_aging_template.nii.gz tensor.nii.gz EDS 4 4 4 0.01
</code>
|script=
<nowiki>
#!/bin/bash -l

# Batch script to run a DTI-TK example on Legion with the upgraded
# software stack under SGE.
#
# September 2012
#
# Based on serial.sh by:
#
# Owain Kenway, Research Computing, 16/Sept/2010

#$ -S /bin/bash

# 1. Request 3 hours of wallclock time (format hours:minutes:seconds).
#$ -l h_rt=3:0:0

# 2. Request 4 gigabyte of RAM.
#$ -l mem=4G

# 3. Set the name of the job.
#$ -N DTI-TK-Job1

# 6. Set the working directory to somewhere in your scratch space.  This is
# a necessary step with the upgraded software stack as compute nodes cannot
# write to $HOME.
#
# Note: this directory MUST exist before your job starts!
# Replace "<your_UCL_id>" with your UCL user ID :)
#$ -wd /home/<your_UCL_id>/Scratch/DTI-TK

# 7. Setup DTI-TK runtime environment
module load dti-tk/2.3.0
source $DTITK_ROOT/scripts/dtitk_common.sh

# 8. Your work *must* be done in $TMPDIR 
cd $TMPDIR

# 9. Run job - an example from one of DTI-TK tutorials:
#
# http://dti-tk.sourceforge.net/pmwiki/pmwiki.php?n=Documentation.FirstRegistration
# First copy input files to $TMPDIR
cp /shared/ucl/apps/DTI-TK/ixi_aging_template/template/ixi_aging_template.nii.gz $TMPDIR
cp /shared/ucl/apps/DTI-TK/DTITK_Sample_Data/tensor_aff.nii.gz $TMPDIR
cp /shared/ucl/apps/DTI-TK/ixi_aging_template/template/ixi_aging_template_brain_mask.nii.gz $TMPDIR

# Run DTI-TK commands
time dti_diffeomorphic_reg ixi_aging_template.nii.gz tensor_aff.nii.gz ixi_aging_template_brain_mask.nii.gz 1 5 0.002

# 10. Preferably, tar-up (archive) all output files onto the shared scratch area
tar zcvf $HOME/Scratch/DTI-TK/files_from_job_$JOB_ID.tar.gz $TMPDIR

# Make sure you have given enough time for the copy to complete!
</nowiki>
|script-path= /shared/ucl/apps/DTI-TK/run-dtitk.sh
|script-notes=
Please copy if you wish and edit it to suit your jobs. You will need to change the ''-wd /home/<your_UCL_id>/Scratch/DTI-TK'' SGE directive. You will also need to change the DTI-TK commands in the example and may need to change the memory, wallclock time and job name directives as well. The script can be submitted using the simplest form of the qsub command ie:
<code>
 qsub run-dtitk.sh
</code>
Output will be written to $TMPDIR and so will need to be copied back to your ~/Scratch directory - step 10 in the runscript.
|script2=
|script2-path=
|script2-notes=

}}