---
title: Hammock
layout: application
---
{{Applications
|name=Hammock
|platform=Legion and Grace
|short=Hammock is a tool for peptide sequence clustering.
|about=Hammock is a tool for peptide sequence clustering. It is able to cluster extremely large amounts of short peptide sequences into groups sharing sequence motifs. Typical Hammock applications are NGS-based experiments using large combinatorial peptide libraries, e.g. Phage display.
|version=1.0.5
|setup-intro=We provide a hammock module that contains the main dependencies and creates a quick-install alias:
<code>
 do-hammock-install
</code>

This will install Hammock 1.0.5 in your home, and edit settings.prop to use clustal-omega and hmmer from our modules and tell it to write temporary files in your Scratch directory (in the form <code>Hammock_temp_time</code>).
|moduleunload1=compilers
|moduleload1=hammock/1.0.5
|setup-notes=

|script-title=
|script-intro=
|script=
<nowiki>
#!/bin/bash -l

# Example Hammock script. You must have run do-hammock-install on a login node
# first to make your own Hammock install.

# 1. Force bash as the executing shell.
#$ -S /bin/bash

# 2. Request 15 mins of wallclock time (format hours:minutes:seconds).
#$ -l h_rt=0:15:0

# 3. Request 1 gigabyte of RAM per core
#$ -l mem=1G

# 4. Set the name of the job.
#$ -N hammock_test

# 6. Select the shared memory parallel environment and 4 processors:
# hhsearch will use four threads.
#$ -pe smp 4

# 7. Set the working directory to somewhere in your scratch space.  
# Replace <your userid> with your UCL userid.
#$ -wd /home/<your userid>/Scratch/hammock_examples

# 8. Load the module to set up your environment

module unload compilers
module load hammock/1.0.5

# This copies the MUSI example that comes with Hammock into your working
# directory and runs it. The module sets $HAMMOCKPATH for you. You must set the
# output directory to somewhere in Scratch with -d. Below makes a different 
# outputdir per job so multiple runs don't overwrite files.
cp $HAMMOCKPATH/../examples/MUSI/musi.fa .
outputdir=~/Scratch/hammock-examples/musi_$JOB_ID
mkdir -p $outputdir
echo "Running java -jar $HAMMOCKPATH/Hammock.jar full -i musi.fa -d $outputdir"

java -jar $HAMMOCKPATH/Hammock.jar full -i musi.fa -d $outputdir
</nowiki>

|script-path=
|script-notes=

|coda-title=
|coda=

}}