---
title: MOLPRO
categories:
 - Applications
 - Software

layout: application
---
{{Applications

|name=MOLPRO
|platform=Legion and Grace
|version=2012.1.25, 2015.1.3, 2015.1.5
|short=Molpro is a complete system of ab initio programs for molecular electronic structure calculations.
|about=Molpro is a complete system of ab initio programs for molecular electronic structure calculations.
|link1=[http://www.molpro.net/ MOLPRO website]
|link2=
|link3=
|link4=
|setup-title=
|setup-intro=
Molpro 2012.1.25 was built from source with the GNU compilers and OpenMPI. 

Molpro 2015.1.3 was provided as binary only and supports communication over Ethernet and not Infiniband so multi-node jobs may run slower. It only works on Legion, not on Grace.

Molpro 2015.1.5 was built from source with the Intel compilers and Intel MPI.

|module-intro=Molpro 2012.1.25 module setup
|moduleunload1=compilers
|moduleunload2=mpi
|moduleunload3=
|moduleunload4=
|moduleload1=compilers/gnu/4.9.2
|moduleload2=mpi/openmpi/1.8.4/gnu-4.9.2
|moduleload3=molpro/2012.1.25/gnu-4.9.2
|moduleload4=
|source1=
|setup-notes=
Molpro 2015.1.3 module setup

<code>module load molpro/2015.1.3</code>

Molpro 2015.1.5 module setup

<code>module load molpro/2015.1.5/intel-2015-update2</code>

|script-title=
|script-intro=
|script=
<nowiki>
#!/bin/bash -l

# 1. Force bash as the executing shell.
#$ -S /bin/bash

# 2. Request one hour of wallclock time (format hours:minutes:seconds).
#$ -l h_rt=1:00:0

# 3. Request 1 gigabyte of RAM per core
#$ -l mem=1G

# 4. Set the name of the job.
#$ -N molpro_test

# 6. Select the MPI parallel environment and 4 processors.
#$ -pe mpi 4

# 7. Set the working directory to somewhere in your scratch space.  
# Replace <your userid> with your UCL userid.
#$ -wd /home/<your userid>/Scratch/molpro_examples

# 8. Load the module to set up your environment

module load molpro/2015.1.5/intel-2015-update2

# Example files available in /shared/ucl/apps/molpro/2015.1.5/intel-2015-update2/molprop_2015_1_linux_x86_64_i8/examples/
# You need to set the wavefunction directory to somewhere in Scratch with -W.
# $SGE_O_WORKDIR is what you specified with -wd.
# $NSLOTS will use the number of cores you requested above.

echo "Running molpro -n $NSLOTS -W $SGE_O_WORKDIR h2o_scf.com"

molpro -n $NSLOTS -W $SGE_O_WORKDIR h2o_scf.com
</nowiki>
|script-path=
|script-notes=
|script2-title=
|script2-intro=
|script2=
|script2-path=
|script2-notes=
|script3-title=
|script3-intro=
|script3=
|script3-path=
|script3-notes=
|coda-title=
|coda=

}}