---
title: NWChem
layout: application
---
{{Applications

|name=NWChem
|platform=Legion
|version=6.5 r26243, 6.6-r27746, 6.8-47-gdf6c956
|short=NWChem is used by thousands of researchers worldwide to investigate questions about chemical processes by applying theoretical techniques to predict the structure, properties, and reactivity of chemical and biological species ranging in size from tens to millions of atoms. 
|about=NWChem is used by thousands of researchers worldwide to investigate questions about chemical processes by applying theoretical techniques to predict the structure, properties, and reactivity of chemical and biological species ranging in size from tens to millions of atoms.

With NWChem, researchers can tackle molecular systems including biomolecules, nanostructures, actinide complexes, and materials. NWChem offers an extensive array of highly scalable, parallel computational chemistry methods needed to address scientific questions that are relevant to reactive chemical processes occurring in our everyday environment—photosynthesis, protein functions, and combustion, to name a few.

They include a multitude of highly correlated methods, density functional theory (DFT) with an extensive set of exchange-correlation functionals, time-dependent density functional theory (TDDFT), plane-wave DFT with exact exchange and Car-Parrinello, molecular dynamics with AMBER and CHARMM force fields, and combinations of them. 
|link1=[http://www.nwchem-sw.org/index.php/Main_Page NWChem.org]
|setup-title=Setup
|setup-intro=
|setup-notes=
We have a version of NWChem 6.5 built with MKL and ScaLAPACK, and one version built with ATLAS. Both use the Intel compilers and MPI, and are built with the Python 2.7 interface. The ATLAS version may have more frequent convergence errors. NWChem 6.6 onwards are built with MKL and ScaLAPACK only.

You should load the NWChem module you wish to use once from a login node, as it will create a symlinked .nwchemrc in your home. 

==MKL with ScaLAPACK version==

Module changes to make using the default modules.

<code> 
 module load python/2.7.12
 module load nwchem/6.8-47-gdf6c956/intel-2017
</code>

==ATLAS version==

Module changes to make using the default modules.

Note: the ATLAS version failed to converge with this [https://www.hpcvl.org/faqs/application-software/nwchem parallel hpcvl sample input] - test for your own data.

<code> 
 module python/2.7.9
 module load atlas/3.10.2/intel-2015-update2
 module load nwchem/6.5-r26243/atlas/intel-2015-update2
</code>

|script-title=Example NWChem Script
|script-intro=
|script=
<nowiki>
#!/bin/bash -l

# Batch script to run an MPI NWChem job on Legion with the upgraded 
# software stack under SGE. Oct 2015

# 1. Force bash as the executing shell.
#$ -S /bin/bash

# 2. Request thirty minutes of wallclock time (format hours:minutes:seconds).
#$ -l h_rt=0:30:0

# 3. Request 1 gigabyte of RAM.
#$ -l mem=1G

# 4. Set the name of the job.
#$ -N NWChem_mkl

# 5. Select the MPI parallel environment and 8 processors.
#$ -pe mpi 8

# 7. Set the working directory to somewhere in your scratch space.  This is
# a necessary step with the upgraded software stack as compute nodes cannot
# write to your $HOME.
#
# NOTE: this directory must exist.
#
# Replace "<your_UCL_id>" with your UCL user ID :)
#$ -wd /home/<your_UCL_id>/Scratch/output/nwchem

# 8. Now we need to set up and run our job. 

module load python/2.7.12
module load nwchem/6.8-47-gdf6c956/intel-2017

module list

# $NSLOTS will get the number of processes you asked for with -pe mpi.
mpirun -np $NSLOTS -machinefile $TMPDIR/machines nwchem hpcvl_sample.nw
</nowiki>
|script-path=
|script-notes=

==ARMCI supports block process mapping only==

If your run terminates with an error saying 
<code>
 ARMCI supports block process mapping only
</code>
then you are probably trying to use round-robin MPI process placement, which ARMCI does not like. Gerun uses round-robin for Intel MPI by default as it works better in most cases. Use mpirun instead of gerun:
<code>
 mpirun -np $NSLOTS -machinefile $TMPDIR/machines
</code>

==Library not found errors==

If you get an error similar to this, then your <code>~/.nwchemrc</code> symlink is likely pointing to a different version that you used previously. Deleting the symlink and loading the module you want to use will recreate it.
<code>
 warning:::::::::::::: from_compile
 NWCHEM_NWPW_LIBRARY is: <
 /dev/shm/tmp.VB3DpmjULc/nwchem-6.6/src/nwpw/libraryps/>
 but file does not exist or you do not have access to it !
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 nwpwlibfile: no nwpw library found 0
</code>

}}