---
title: Camino on Legion
categories:
 - Legion
 - Legion Applications
 - Legion Software

layout: application
---
{{Applications
|name=Camino
|platform=Legion
|short=Camino is a free, open-source, object-oriented software package for analysis and reconstruction of Diffusion MRI data, tractography and connectivity mapping
|about=Camino is a fully-featured toolkit for Diffusion MR processing and reconstruction, including diffusion tensor techniques, tractography and advanced algorithms for resolving non-Gaussian diffusion profiles, the so-called fibre-crossing problem. It is developed at UCL by the Microstructure Imaging Group. Camino is intended to be run primarily within batch jobs however you may run short (less than 5 minutes execution time) interactive tests on the Login Nodes and longer interactive tests on the User Test Nodes.
|link1 = [http://web4.cs.ucl.ac.uk/research/medic/camino/pmwiki/pmwiki.php?n=Main.HomePage Camino homepage]
|version=1091
|setup-notes=
|moduleload1=java/1.6.0_32
|moduleload2=camino/1091
|script-title=
|script=<nowiki>
#!/bin/bash -l

# Batch script to run a serial Camino job on Legion with the upgraded

# software stack under SGE. This version works with the modules

# environment upgraded in Feb 2012.

# Camino revision 1091

# Sep 2012

# 1. Force bash as the executing shell.

#$ -S /bin/bash

# 2. Request 1 hour of wallclock time (format hours:minutes:seconds).

# Change this to suit your requirements.

#$ -l h_rt=0:10:0

# 3. Request 1 gigabyte of RAM. Change this to suit your requirements.

#$ -l mem=1G

# 4. Set the name of the job. You can change this if you wish.

#$ -N Camino_job_1


# 6. Set the working directory to somewhere in your scratch space.  This is

# a necessary step with the upgraded software stack as compute nodes cannot

# write to your $HOME.

#

# NOTE: this directory must exist.

#

# Replace "<your_UCL_id>" with your UCL user ID :)

#$ -wd /home/<your_UCL_id>/Scratch/Camino_output

# 7. Your work *must* be done in $TMPDIR 

cd $TMPDIR

# 8. Load Camino module and set the amount of RAM Camino can use.

module load java/1.6.0_32

module load camino/1091

export CAMINO_HEAP_SIZE=$MEMPERSLOT

# 9. Run Camino programs - replace with your command(s)

#

# This is one of the Camino tutorials:

#

# http://web4.cs.ucl.ac.uk/research/medic/camino/pmwiki/pmwiki.php?n=Tutorials.PigBrainTutorial

#

# 9a. Copy input files to $TMPDIR

tar xvzf /home/<your_UCL_id>/Scratch/Camino_output/test2/e1809_15.tgz

cd e1809_15

# 9b. Run analysis

pointset2scheme -inputfile pigPoints.txt -version STEJSKALTANNER -dwparams 0.061 0.03 0.023 0.06 > PigBrain_ST.scheme

ls NEX*.hdr > imagelist.txt

analyzedti imagelist.txt ./pig_ PigBrain_ST.scheme

# 10. Preferably, tar-up (archive) all output files onto the shared scratch area

# All output files are prepended with pig_.

tar cvzf /home/ccaabaa/Scratch/Camino_output/files_from_job_$JOB_ID.tar.gz pig_*
</nowiki>
|script-path=/shared/ucl/apps/Camino/run-camino.sh
|script-notes=Please copy if you wish and edit it to suit your jobs. You will need to change the ''-wd /home/<your_UCL_id>/Scratch/Camino_output'' SGE directive. You will also need to change the Camino commands in the example and may need to change the memory, wallclock time and job name directives as well. The:
<code>
 export CAMINO_HEAP_SIZE=$MEMPERSLOT
</code>
line is required to automatically configure Camino's heap size to the memory requested by the ''-l mem='' SGE directive. The script can be submitted using the simplest form of the qsub command ie:
<code>
 qsub run-camino.sh
</code>
Output will be written to $TMPDIR and so will need to be copied back to your ~/Scratch directory - step 10 in the runscript. 
}}