---
title: CASTEP
categories:
 - Applications

layout: application
---
{{Applications

|name=CASTEP
|platform=Legion
|version= 
|short=
CASTEP is a full-featured materials modelling code based on a first-principles quantum mechanical description of electrons and nuclei. 
|about=
CASTEP is a full-featured materials modelling code based on a first-principles quantum mechanical description of electrons and nuclei. Using density functional theory, it can simulate a wide range of properties of materials proprieties including energetics, structure at the atomic level, vibrational properties, electronic response properties etc. In particular it has a wide range of spectroscopic features that link directly to experiment, such as infra-red and Raman spectroscopies, NMR, and core level spectra. CASTEP is developed by members of the Castep Developers Group (CDG) who are currently all UK based academics.

On RC systems CASTEP is intended to be run primarily within batch jobs however you may run short (less than 5 minutes execution time) interactive tests on the Login Nodes and longer interactive tests on the User Test Nodes.
|link1= [http://www.castep.org/ CASTEP website]
|setup-title=
|setup-intro=
|module-intro=The following changes need to be made to the standard modules before running this software:
|moduleunload1=
|moduleunload2=
|moduleunload3=
|moduleunload4=
|moduleadd1=
|moduleadd2=
|moduleadd3=
|moduleadd4=
|moduleload1=castep/17.21/intel-2017
|moduleload2=
|moduleload3=
|moduleload4=
|source1=
|setup-notes=

|script=
<nowiki>
#!/bin/bash -l

# Batch script to run CASTEP.

# 1. Force bash as the executing shell.
#$ -S /bin/bash

# 2. Request 1 hour of wallclock time (format hours:minutes:seconds).
#$ -l h_rt=1:0:0

# 3. Request 2 gigabyte of RAM per core.
#$ -l mem=2G

# 4. Reguest 32 MPI processes
#$ -pe mpi 32

# 5. Set the name of the job.
#$ -N CASTEP_test

# 6. Set the working directory to somewhere in your scratch space.  This is
# a necessary step with the upgraded software stack as compute nodes cannot
# write to $HOME. 
#
# Replace <your userid> with your UCL userid where it occurs below.

#$ -wd /home/<your userid>/Scratch/castep_examples

# 7. Set up environment

module load castep/17.21/intel-2017

# 8. Run the application. Gerun is our wrapper for mpirun which sets the
# machinefile and number of processes to the amount you requested above with -pe.

gerun castep.mpi input

</nowiki>
|script-path=
|script-notes=

==Installing your own copy==
If you have access to the source code, you may install it in your home. You may wish to refer to [[Compiling]].

==Optimisation==
It has been suggested that compiling with these options (on Grace) gave a build that ran about 10% faster than the default compilation options.

<code>
 make COMMS_ARCH=mpi SUBARCH=mpi FFT=mkl MATHLIBS=mkl10 BUILD=fast
</code> 

Do check for numerical accuracy with any optimisations you carry out. If you have further suggestions, please let us know.


|script2-title=
|script2-intro=
|script2=
|script2-path=
|script2-notes=
|script3-title=
|script3-intro=
|script3=
|script3-path=
|script3-notes=
|coda-title=
|coda=

}}