---
title: CP2K
categories:
 - Applications
 - Software

layout: application
---
{{Applications

|name=CP2K
|platform=Legion
|short=
CP2K performs atomistic and molecular simulations.
|about=
CP2K performs atomistic and molecular simulations. Older installs of CP2K on Legion and Grace only were maintained by the Chemistry department.

|link1=[http://www.cp2k.org/ CP2K website]
|version=4.1 
|setup-title=
|setup-intro=
|module-intro=The following changes need to be made to the standard modules before running this software:
|moduleunload1=compilers
|moduleunload2=mpi
|moduleunload3=
|moduleunload4=
|moduleunload5=
|moduleunload6=
|moduleunload7=
|moduleunload8=
|moduleload1=compilers/gnu/4.9.2
|moduleload2=mpi/openmpi/1.8.4/gnu-4.9.2
|moduleload3=openblas/0.2.14/gnu-4.9.2
|moduleload4=fftw/3.3.4/gnu-4.9.2
|moduleload5=libxc/2.2.2/gnu-4.9.2
|moduleload6=libint/1.1.4/gnu-4.9.2
|moduleload7=quip/18c5440/gnu-4.9.2
|moduleload8=cp2k/4.1/ompi/gnu-4.9.2
|setup-notes=

|script-title=
|script-intro=
|script=
<nowiki>
#!/bin/bash -l

# 1. Force bash as the executing shell.
#$ -S /bin/bash

# 2. Request one hour of wallclock time (format hours:minutes:seconds).
#$ -l h_rt=1:00:0

# 3. Request 1 gigabyte of RAM per core
#$ -l mem=1G

# 4. Set the name of the job.
#$ -N cp2k_test

# 6. Select the MPI parallel environment and 12 processors.
#$ -pe mpi 12

# 7. Set the working directory to somewhere in your scratch space.  
# Replace <your userid> with your UCL userid.
#$ -wd /home/<your userid>/Scratch/cp2k_test

# 8. Load the module to set up your environment

module unload compilers mpi
module load compilers/gnu/4.9.2
module load mpi/openmpi/1.8.4/gnu-4.9.2
module load openblas/0.2.14/gnu-4.9.2
module load fftw/3.3.4/gnu-4.9.2
module load libxc/2.2.2/gnu-4.9.2
module load libint/1.1.4/gnu-4.9.2
module load quip/18c5440/gnu-4.9.2
module load cp2k/4.1/ompi/gnu-4.9.2

# Gerun is our mpirun wrapper which sets number of cores and machinefile for you
gerun cp2k.popt < input.in > output.out
</nowiki>
|script-path=
|script-notes=

== Chemistry-maintained older versions ==

2.6.0, 3.0, 4.1 are available on Legion and Grace.

The submission script generators for these versions are contained in the chemistry modules bundle, so you will need to load the module set that contains them before they are visible in the modules list:

<code>
 module load chemistry-modules
 module load submission-scripts
</code>

The alias <code>submitters</code> will then list the submitters available.

You can then run <code>cp2k.submit</code> which will ask you questions in order to create a suitable jobscript.

The "cp2k.submit" submitter takes up to 6 arguments, and any omitted will be asked for interactively:
<code>
 cp2k.submit «input_file» «cores» «version» «maximum_run_time» «memory_per_core» «job_name»
</code>
So, for example:
<code>
 cp2k.submit water.inp 8 4.1 2:00:00 4G mywatermolecule
</code>
would request a job running CP2K 4.1 with the input file "water.inp", on 8 cores, with a maximum runtime of 2 hours, with 4 gigabytes of memory per core, and a job name of "mywatermolecule".


}}