---
title: FreeSurfer on Legion
categories:
 - Legion
 - Legion Applications
 - Legion Software

layout: application
---
{{Applications

|name=FreeSurfer
|platform=Legion
|short=
FreeSurfer is a set of tools for analysis and visualization of structural and functional brain imaging data.
|about=
FreeSurfer is a set of tools for analysis and visualization of structural and functional brain imaging data. FreeSurfer is intended to be run primarily within batch jobs however you may run short (less than 5 minutes execution time) interactive tests on the Login Nodes and longer interactive tests on the User Test Nodes.
|version=5.3.0
|link1=[http://surfer.nmr.mgh.harvard.edu/fswiki FreeSurfer Wiki at Harvard]
|moduleunload1=
|moduleunload2=
|moduleunload3=
|moduleunload4=
|moduleunload5=
|moduleunload6=
|moduleunload7=
|moduleunload8=
|moduleload1=xorg-utils/X11R7.7
|moduleload2=freesurfer/5.3.0
|moduleload3=
|moduleload4=
|moduleload5=
|moduleload6=
|moduleload7=
|moduleload8=
|setup-notes=
Before you can use FreeSurfer you also need to set an environment variable to point to your subjects directory:
<code>
 export SUBJECTS_DIR=~/Scratch/<some-directory>
</code>
This directory needs to be in your Scratch space so the computer nodes have write access to it.

The latest version of FreeSurfer supports OpenMP. Here is an example runscript to submit a batch job to the cluster using 4 threads:
|script=
<nowiki>
#!/bin/bash -l

# Batch script to run a serial FreeSurfer job on Legion with the upgraded
# software stack under SGE. This version works with the modules
# environment upgraded in Oct 2015.

# FreeSurfer Version 5.3.0
# This version of FreeSurfer supports OpenMP

# 1. Force bash as the executing shell.
#$ -S /bin/bash

# 2. Request 1 hour of wallclock time (format hours:minutes:seconds).
#    Change this to suit your requirements.
#$ -l h_rt=1:00:0

# 3. Request 5G of RAM per core. Change this to suit your requirements.
#$ -l mem=5G

# 4. Set the name of the job. You can change this if you wish.
#$ -N FreeSurfer_job_1m

# 5. Select 4 threads (the most possible on the majority of Legion is 12). 
#$ -pe smp 4

# 7. Set the working directory to somewhere in your scratch space.  This is
# a necessary step with the upgraded software stack as compute nodes cannot
# write to your $HOME.
#
# NOTE: this directory must exist.
#
# Replace "<your_UCL_id>" with your UCL user ID :)
#$ -wd /home/<your_UCL_id>/Scratch/FreeSurfer_output

# 8. Your work *must* be done in $TMPDIR 
cd $TMPDIR

# 9. Load FreeSurfer module and point to your subjects directory.
module load xorg-utils/X11R7.7
module load freesurfer/5.3.0
export SUBJECTS_DIR=~/Scratch/PADDINGTON

# 10. Run FreeSurfer programs - replace with your command(s)
#time recon-all -i $SUBJECTS_DIR/30432.n.nii -subjid 30432 -autorecon1 -cw256
time recon-all -subjid 30432 -autorecon1 -cw256
</nowiki>
|script-path=
|script-notes=
Please copy if you wish and edit it to suit your jobs. You will need to change the ''-wd /home/<your_UCL_id>/Scratch/FreeSurfer_output'' SGE directive and set the SUBJECTS_DIR variable to the path to your subjects directory. You will also need to change the FreeSurfer command in the example and may need to change the memory, wallclock time, number of threads and job name directives as well. The script can be submitted using the simplest form of the qsub command ie:
<code>
 qsub run-freesurfer.sh
</code>
Output files and logs will be written to your subjects directory.
|script2=
|script2-path=
|script2-notes=

}}